MTA-4854 Documentation for Platform Awareness (#181)
migtools/mta-documentation: docs/topics/proc_creating-source-platform.adoc

Reviewer: This file is focused on creating a CF platform, which is correct for MTA 8, but may change in the future if more source platforms are supported. In my opinion, we should either make this more generic or note explicitly that the flow described is for creating a CF-type source platform

Author: I have modified the procedures to be more generic by citing CF as an example.

:_newdoc-version: 2.15.0
:_template-generated: 2024-2-21
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="creating-source-platform_{context}"]
= Creating a source platform in {ProductShortName} {WebName}

[role="_abstract"]
Create a source platform instance to retrieve platform and runtime configurations for one or more applications. 

> A platform engineer, who has administrator privileges to access Cloud Foundry (CF), can share the CF platform URL with the architect who oversees the migration effort in {ProductShortName}. The {ProductShortName} architect can configure one or more CF platform instances in the {ProductShortName} user interface. 

Author: Done, thanks!

.Prerequisites
//should the users be logged in to the CF instance for application discovery?

* The {ProductShortName} administrator created a *Source Control* credential of the CF platform in the *Administration* mode.

.Procedure

. In the {ProductShortName} user interface, select the *Administration* working mode.

> . Click *Source Platform* in the left menu bar to go to the *Source platforms* page.

Author: Done, thanks!

. Click *Create new platform*. The *Create new platform* dialog appears.
. In the form, enter the following information:
.. *Name*: A unique name for the CF instance.
.. *Type*: Select *Cloud Foundry* from the drop down menu.

> .. *URL*: A purpose of the application (optional).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. *URL*: API URL to Cloud Foundry
```
URL is required

> .. *Credentials*: Select the name of the CF platform credentials that you configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. *Credentials*: Select the name of the Source Control credential that you configured.
```

. Click *Create*.
+
The source platform instance is created. A source platform instance can be linked with one or more applications.
+
. Click the Options menu ({kebab}) of a source platform and click *Discover applications* to discover all or selected applications deployed in the source platform instance. The *Discover applications* window appears.
+
This action imports multiple applications that are deployed on the platform instance to the *Applications Inventory* page on {ProductShortName}.

. Type the platform coordinate details based on which {ProductShortName} filters applications during the discovery process. For example:
+
[source, json]
----
{
    "names": ["app-a", "app-b"],
    "spaces": ["example-space"]
}
----
+

> . (Optional) Hover over the source platform name to check the status of the application import task and click the application import task to view the task details in YAML format.

Reviewer: Those steps should not be part of the platform creation flow, but of the import applications from source platform flow

A platform engineer, who has administrator privileges to access Cloud Foundry (CF), can share the CF platform URL with the architect who oversees the migration effort in {ProductShortName}. The {ProductShortName} architect can configure one or more CF platform instances in the {ProductShortName} user interface. 

.Prerequisites
//should the users be logged in to the CF instance for application discovery?

* The {ProductShortName} administrator created a *Source Control* credential of the CF platform in the *Administration* mode.

.Procedure

. In the {ProductShortName} user interface, select the *Administration* working mode.
. Click *Source Platform* in the left menu bar to go to the *Source platforms* page.
. Click *Create new platform*. The *Create new platform* dialog appears.
. In the form, enter the following information:
.. *Name*: A unique name for the CF instance.
.. *Type*: Select *Cloud Foundry* from the drop down menu.
.. *URL*: A purpose of the application (optional).
.. *Credentials*: Select the name of the CF platform credentials that you configured.
. Click *Create*.
+

> The source platform instance is created. A source platform instance can be linked with one or more applications.

Author: Ok but the user doesn't manually link the source platform with the applications. So, I'm going to leave it as it is.
